Add external interop (#3647)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/how-to/hip_runtime_api/external_interop.rst

.. meta::
   :description: HIP provides an external resource interoperability API that
                 allows efficient data sharing between HIP's computing power and
                 OpenGL's graphics rendering.
   :keywords: AMD, ROCm, HIP, external, interop, interoperability

*******************************************************************************
External resource interoperability
*******************************************************************************

This feature allows HIP to work with resources -- like memory and semaphores --
created by other APIs. This means resources can be used from APIs like CUDA,
OpenCL and Vulkan within HIP, making it easier to integrate HIP into existing
projects.

To use external resources in HIP, you typically follow these steps:

> - import the resource: Use functions to import resources from other APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Import resources from other APIs using HIP provided functions
```

> - use the resource: the imported resources can be used as if they were created 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use external resources as if they were created in HIP
```

>   by HIP itself

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> - destroy the resource: to clean up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Destroy the resource using HIP functions to clean up 
```

Reviewer: Does this destroy the association in HIP? Or destroy the actual external resource?

Author: It destroys the HIP object only.

Author: Updated

Semaphore Functions
===============================================================================

Semaphore functions are essential for synchronization in parallel computing.
These functions facilitate communication and coordination between different
parts of a program or between different programs. By managing semaphores, tasks
are executed in the correct order, and resources are utilized effectively.
Semaphore functions ensure smooth operation, preventing conflicts and
maintaining the integrity of processes; upholding the integrity and performance
of concurrent processes.

> Semaphore functions are not supported recently on Linux (see: :doc:`../reference/hip_runtime_api/external_interop`.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
External semaphore functions can be used in HIP as described in  :doc:`../reference/hip_runtime_api/external_interop`.
```

Memory Functions
===============================================================================

> Memory functions focus on the efficient sharing and management of memory

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HIP external memory functions focus on the efficient sharing and management of memory
```

> resources. These functions allow the importation of memory created by external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
resources. These functions enable importing memory created by external
```

> systems, enabling the program to use this memory seamlessly. Memory functions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
systems, enabling the HIP program to use this memory seamlessly. Memory functions
```

continuously updates the window framebuffer to display the computed data
until the window is closed.

The following code converts a Vulkan memory handle to its equivalent HIP handle.
The input VkDeviceMemory and the created HIP memory represents the same physical
area of GPU memory, through the handles of each respective API. Writing to the
buffer in one API will allow us to read the results through the other. Note that
access to the buffer should be synchronized between the APIs, for example using
queue syncs or semaphores.

.. literalinclude:: ../../tools/example_codes/external_interop.hip
   :start-after: // [Sphinx vulkan memory to hip start]
   :end-before: // [Sphinx vulkan memory to hip end]
   :language: cpp

The Vulkan semaphore is converted to HIP semaphore shown in the following
example. Signaling on the semaphore in one API will allow the other API to wait
on it, which is how we can guarantee synchronized access to resources in a
cross-API manner.

.. literalinclude:: ../../tools/example_codes/external_interop.hip
   :start-after: // [Sphinx semaphore convert start]
   :end-before: // [Sphinx semaphore convert end]
   :language: cpp

> When the HIP external memory is exported from Vulkan and imported to HIP, it

Reviewer: This is nice detail for the user. 

Is the memory copied into HIP, or is the memory location shared between Vulkan and HIP?

Author: The memory is shared (same with semaphores).

The Vulkan API reference, which is used by the example, is located here:
https://docs.vulkan.org/guide/latest/extensions/external.html

Author: Updated

resource leaks. This is critical for performance, particularly in applications
handling large datasets or complex structures such as textures in graphics.
Proper memory management ensures stability and efficient resource utilization.

Example
===============================================================================
ROCm examples include a
`HIP--Vulkan interoperation example <https://github.com/ROCm/rocm-examples/tree/develop/HIP-Basic/vulkan_interop>`_
demonstrates how to perform interoperation between HIP and Vulkan.

In this example, a simple HIP kernel is used to compute a sine wave, which is
then rendered to a window as a graphical output using Vulkan. The process
requires several initialization steps, such as setting up a HIP context,
creating a Vulkan instance, and configuring the GPU device and queue. After
these initial steps, the kernel executes the sine wave computation, and Vulkan
continuously updates the window framebuffer to display the computed data
until the window is closed.

The Vulkan external descriptor is defined in the following way:

.. literalinclude:: ../../tools/example_codes/external_interop.hip
   :start-after: // [Sphinx external descriptor start]

>    :end-before: // [Sphinx external descriptor end]

Reviewer 2: Please add ```:language: cpp```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    :language: cpp
    
```

The Vulkan semaphore is converted to HIP semaphore shown in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: ../../tools/example_codes/external_interop.hip
   :start-after: // [Sphinx semaphore use in kernel start]
   :end-before: // [Sphinx semaphore use in kernel end]

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    :language: cpp
    
```

The external memory is used in the following example:

.. literalinclude:: ../../tools/example_codes/external_interop.hip
   :start-after: // [Sphinx external memory use in kernel start]
   :end-before: // [Sphinx external memory use in kernel end]

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    :language: cpp
    
```
